OSDOCS-8646: Rewriting introduction to networking (ContentX) (#87228)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-understanding-networking-routes-ingress-example.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/understanding-networking.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-understanding-networking-routes-ingress-example_{context}"]
= Example: Configuring routes and ingress to expose a web application

> A web application running is running on your OpenShift cluster. You want to make the application accessible to external users. The application should be accessible through a specific domain name, and the traffic should be securely encrypted using TLS. The following example shows how to configure both Routes and Ingress to expose your web application to external traffic securely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A web application is running on your {product-title} cluster. You want to make the application accessible to external users. The application should be accessible through a specific domain name, and the traffic should be securely encrypted using TLS. The following example shows how to configure both routes and ingress to expose your web application to external traffic securely.
```

Author: fixed

== Configuring Routes

. Create a new project.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc new-project webapp-project
----

. Deploy the web application.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc new-app nodejs:12~https://github.com/sclorg/nodejs-ex.git --name=webapp
----

. Expose the service with a Route.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc expose svc/webapp --hostname=webapp.example.com
----

. Secure the Route with TLS.

.. Create a TLS secret with your certificate and key.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create secret tls webapp-tls --cert=path/to/tls.crt --key=path/to/tls.key
----

.. Update the route to use the TLS secret.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc patch route/webapp -p '{"spec":{"tls":{"termination":"edge","certificate":"path/to/tls.crt","key":"path/to/tls.key"}}}'
----

> == Configuring Ingress

Reviewer: Anchor ID

. Create a service for the web application. If not already created, expose the application as a service.
+
[source, yaml]
----
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Service
   metadata:
     name: webapp-service
     namespace: webapp-project
   spec:
     selector:
       app: webapp
     ports:
       - protocol: TCP
         port: 80
         targetPort: 8080
----

. Create the ingress resource.
+
[source, yaml]
----
   apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
   kind: Ingress
   metadata:
     name: webapp-ingress
     namespace: webapp-project
     annotations:
       kubernetes.io/ingress.class: "nginx"
   spec:
     rules:
       - host: webapp.example.com
         http:
           paths:
             - path: /
               pathType: Prefix
               backend:
                 service:
                   name: webapp-service
                   port:
                     number: 80
----

. Secure the ingress with TLS.

.. Create a TLS secret with your certificate and key.
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create secret tls webapp-tls --cert=path/to/tls.crt --key=path/to/tls.key -n webapp-project
----

.. Update the ingress resource to use the TLS secret.
+
[source, yaml]

> ----

Reviewer: There are a few code blocks with extra spaces to the left. I was concerned about this impacting the ability to cut and paste the code, but apparently it doesn't affect the ability of OCP to create the object. It does look a bit odd in the preview, though. Maybe something for a follow-up?

Author: I can fix that real quick.
